---
title: "Australia Melbourne to Perth 2024"
date: 2024-07-22T12:53:27+07:00
featured_image: "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AM-JKLUE82FajhvtKiK10C3-ml5es-vZA6egq7vzssXe8JCfZn3aSpJwADo77IdogyEcqvSY4XZe_uReDxmjsI0yZtvxhl0qbkhhwWTHZwDI7EnxsVL1-FuN8NrVQPbsSdk8ZnRrhWndrf2pNVzOZzGLPhUCxg=w315-no?authuser=0"
images:
  - "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AM-JKLUE82FajhvtKiK10C3-ml5es-vZA6egq7vzssXe8JCfZn3aSpJwADo77IdogyEcqvSY4XZe_uReDxmjsI0yZtvxhl0qbkhhwWTHZwDI7EnxsVL1-FuN8NrVQPbsSdk8ZnRrhWndrf2pNVzOZzGLPhUCxg=w315-no?authuser=0"
draft: true
author: "Helen"
album:  
omit_header_text: true
---
The flight from Christchurch was packed but we arrived on time and moved in the chaos that was Melbourne Airport. The lines to get through customs were really long and it was hard to determine which one to be in but we made it through. Getting an Uber was a bit crazy, we hadn't gotten sims yet so Paul needed to be in an area to use the wifi, then we needed to ask which stop at the ride share desk. As usual he handled it and we made it over to Let’s Go on time. We were dealing with Carol again, which was good since she is so nice. We got an even nicer surprise when we were given a van with only 24 kms! Wow, talk about new… it even had the new car smell. We loaded in our luggage and followed Carol over to the local Woolies for groceries and a sim card. It was then we realized the air conditioner in the cab wasn’t working so after our errands and lunch, we headed back to Let’s Go. We waited while they took the van over to the mechanic but it turns out they needed to charge the AC which would take a long time. Instead of keeping us waiting, they brought out another new van… this one was only 600km. We transferred everything over and we were on our way. 

We called this van Skippy Part Four or SPF for short. Our first stop was the Airport Village location, nice and close since we were tired from our early flight… plus the Thai restaurant. We had the same spot, unpacked and set up the van before heading out for dinner. Unfortunately the Thai place was closed, as were all the restaurants in the area. A bit disgruntled, mostly me because the hanger is real, we headed back to the van and had wraps. Have to say, we were lucky to discover that Australia has Yummy’s which made falafel’s and other vegetarian patties that were gluten free, microwavable and delicious! We had them several times a week. 

We decided to head back to Port Campbell and see some more stops on the Great Ocean Road. But first, we had to stop at a mall so that we, being me, could get a new cell phone!! We had been sharing Paul’s OG Pixel for about 6 weeks while waiting for the S24 release. We could have picked one up in our last week in New Zealand but like everything there, it was much more expensive. We also could have continued sharing the Pixel, but didn’t know if it was going to last an the cost was similar to Canada. We headed over to the mall, got the phone and stocked up on grocery items we didn’t get the previous day, another sim card and some lunch. On the drive to Port Campbell we had to go past the ferry to Tasmania… we did consider a detour to Left of Field momentarily but stuck to the plan to head west.

Port Campbell and the Great Ocean Road was an exercise in patience. All the stops along the Great Ocean Road were packed with large tour groups and buses, walking was hard because people were all over the place and blocked pathways. Added to that our campsite was horrid… basically a sand pit. It seems the park was sold and while the new owners were making changes, things weren’t being maintained. There was a storm that night which blew dust everywhere so all in all, a bit of a rough start. Unfortunately we weren’t able to see the couple we had met in Tassie, but they emailed us with loads of suggestions. We had a general plan of stops but had to make some changes fairly quickly, mostly due to losing just over a week of time before we had to leave Australia due to our flight change to Kuala Lumpur. We had to make tough decisions to miss some stops and visits with friends so we could make it over to Western Australia in time. 

We got up early for the long drive to Keith,making a stop further along the G.O.R for some photos, Warrnambool for groceries and JB Hi-fi for a mouse, before heading to Mt Gambier for lunch and to see the sinkhole. I was able to give Paul a driving break and we saw an Emu baby and mother. We arrived in Keith shortly before supper time when I decided to break my kitchen safety streak by using the peeler on my pinky nail. The result was Paul cooked supper and we met Rod, an older Australian who came to the rescue with some bandaids.  The next day, after a stop at the local pharmacy for gauze and finger cots, we kept going to Crystal Creek. The white cockatoos in the trees were the noisiest we had experienced. We took a driving break in Tumby, giving ourselves 2 nights before a stop in Elliston. Neither really stood out but we had a nice walk along the shore in both spots. We did have a beautiful drive along the shore through Streaky Bay and if we ever went back, would stay there instead. 

We didn't get much for groceries because we were about to head across the Nullabor. There is a food quarantine just as you cross the border so we couldn't have loads of fresh groceries. We decided on a stop at the Nullabor Roadhouse which was not bad. It’s a gravel lot with power, but had a restaurant where we had a decent meal, it didn’t meet the Hi-Way breakfast standard but it was tasty. They had basic amenities along with a small area to sit or BBQ plus you could walk around a bit. I was fascinated with the caution sign that showed kanagaroos, wombats and camels.  Our next stop was Cocklebiddy… mostly because of the name really. Turns out we should have kept going, it wasn’t great and we regretted stopping. Next day we planned to continue on through to Norseman so we would be across the Nullabor. When we were driving by Balladonia, we noticed a large amount of smoke which was growing quickly. When we checked into Norsemen a couple of hours later we were told the highway had been closed shortly after we passed through due to a quickly spreading bush fire, so we were lucky to make it. There is only the Eyre Highway that connects South and Western Australia and it’s a big deal when that closes. It stayed closed for about 3 days before they started letting limited traffic through. About 10 days later the highway was closed due to flooding… crazy!

Norseman was okay, but we were glad we didn’t spend more than one night. The campground was pretty basic and I swear the maintenance man deliberately set the door locks to be a mind test. The best part, it was so hot you could smell the eucalyptus trees beside the van. Groceries weren’t great and the pub, which was an off-license, was pretty grim. Next day we headed down to Esperance which was on the coast. It was a nice little town and we had a decent campsite. We went to get some groceries and hung out in the green space a bit. It was a nice area where they had a food truck and drinks van with some live music that night. We actually tried to extend an extra night but with the closures they were trying to shuffle reservations around and weren’t able to make it work. 

We headed to Bremer Bay where we hoped to do a whale watching tour. It was a nice beach walk route connecting back to town through some dirt track trails. We stopped at the local brewery, good music but the drinks missed the mark, then followed the "official" pathway back to the campsite. They had done a really nice job on the pathway with interesting stops and lots of panels with descriptions of local highlights. It was a nice 10k walk. We ended up spending a few nights here but weren’t able to go whale watching. It was really windy and there were large swells so it wouldn’t have been enjoyable. We headed to Emu Point by Albany, for a couple of nights. It was a huge park by the beach so we did a beach walk to Albany center and back. The park was nice, had a huge water park for kids but was still fairly quiet. We did have people continually walking through our site, which got a bit irritating… especially when we were sitting out and they just walked less than a foot away. We had nice neighbors on the one side that we were able to chat with a bit.

With a long weekend coming up, we booked in for 5 nights at Cheynes Beach. This was a more remote location with not a lot around but the campground was highly rated. We were actually lucky to get a decent spot because the next day it was packed solid with families. Kids were running everywhere but we did appreciate the one dad who kept telling his kids to stay away from our van. We were able to get in some decent beach walks and there was a neat rock formation where people were fishing. We spent a day in frustration trying to get change for laundry, including a drive to the local post office which resulted in us back in Albany at a Woolies and ATM. When we were able to do laundry, not surprisingly, someone had washed a dog blanket and our load was covered in bits, so we had to redo it. The staff were good and refunded the load. There was a chippy van run by the campsite, where we had some nice chips to recover from the laundry incident. The staff were great, the older man asked Paul some interesting questions, but it was all in fun. 

At this point we were actually getting pretty tired of all the driving and needed a change from all the vans. Paul had been amazing with the lion's share of the driving, handling the roads with all the twists and turns, no shoulders, the crazy traffic, maneuvering through large cities trying to make sense of my garbled directions… he was amazing. We decided to book our remaining few days, trying to make it as easy as possible. 

We had two nights at a place called Northcliffe which had us feeling that we were in a bad episode of some hillbilly spoof. It was very rustic, the kitchen was basic and bathrooms weren’t the cleanest plus our site didn’t have water because the kitchen pipe was leaking. The owner came and turned it on for a bit and we had a nice conversation. We had a good night the first night, it was very quiet and with no light pollution, the stars were really nice. The next day was great, we drove down to D’Entrecasteaux National Park. We parked and had lunch at the point, overlooking the town and Windy Harbour Beach. We went over to Tokulup Lookout which had a fantastic view.  From there we decided to head down to Salmon Beach for a walk. It was beautiful but so windy! We ended up having to use our buffs to cover our faces from the blowing sand… we both felt we had been scrubbed. It was worth it though because it was beautiful. When we got back, some serious “bogans” had moved into a site just by ours… screaming, swearing, kids unsupervised, belching… it completely changed the feel of the place to the point we left a day early.

Our next stop was just outside Augusta. The campground was small and basic, but everything was clean and the owners were really nice. We had some good chats with people in the kitchen, met Johno who was a character, Sam who reminded me of my Aunt Vee as well as some other couples. We stayed a few nights and did some day trips. We went over to Hamelin Bay to see the stingrays and had a nice beach walk. It was really busy there but you could move away from all the people. We did the Jewel Caves which were okay. The tour guide was good but the group that was supposed to be capped at 20 ended up with almost 30 people.

After that it was over to Bussselton where we stayed at Mandalay Beach. It was a large campground and we had to ask to be moved from our first site… it was by the bathroom and everyone was walking through our site plus you could hear the laundry. Our next site was great and we didn’t have any issues. We had some nice beach walks and were able to get our documents printed for our Thai visa applications… oh yeah, did we mention we are heading back to Thailand? 

We positioned ourselves to be closer to our Perth drop off by spending a couple of nights in Mandurah. That was a mistake as it was filled with screaming kids, riding through the kitchens, people walking through sites and parents not paying any attention. That said, we were able to pack and clean the van, so it worked. We drove up to Perth, leaving early to make the long drive. It was on a Saturday, so the traffic wasn’t bad. Slyvia at the Perth depot was great, she gave us a tour of some of the newer models and we had a really nice chat. She commented on how clean we left the van, which was mentioned each drop off, but she was saying the cleaning service would love me. And so ended our almost 6 months, approximately 25,000 KMS of driving, 150 nights in various versions of Skippy, campsites and shared facilities.  

Our flight wasn’t until the next morning so we had booked into the Ingot Hotel. It was great, the staff were really friendly, we packed, went for a meal and relaxed. Our ride to the airport the next day was fun. Paul guessed the driver was from Nepal, which made her day. Perth airport was one of the best airport experiences we’ve had. No delays, everything moved smoothly and we were quickly by the gate. Next stop, Kuala Lumpur!

