---
title: "Calgary Summer 2024"
date: 2024-08-30T12:53:27+07:00
featured_image: "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczMd6kl6PB6r92egNsHTyG7A_FwPhq6IwZDZQPi9uF195v5yjENS5XWDZMtibNnjYgpWcABSa0-uMc3H9B_xNAuqB_aS3mz-hsr8enW3Ymg_P5sFdFLyvchWXZsPvaI4r8_e5w0dKLCYF7DyCSYtuLWDwQ=w1307-h897-s-no?authuser=0"
images:
  - "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczMd6kl6PB6r92egNsHTyG7A_FwPhq6IwZDZQPi9uF195v5yjENS5XWDZMtibNnjYgpWcABSa0-uMc3H9B_xNAuqB_aS3mz-hsr8enW3Ymg_P5sFdFLyvchWXZsPvaI4r8_e5w0dKLCYF7DyCSYtuLWDwQ=w1307-h897-s-no?authuser=0"
draft: false
author: "Helen"
album:
omit_header_text: true
---

An easy transfer to the airport and we were on our way BKK-TPE-YVR-YYC… well not really because our flight was delayed. We had lounge access and they had Magnum Ice Cream bars… so we were fine. When we went to board the plane, Paul’s boarding pass wouldn’t scan and he was taken aside which was concerning. Apparently they saw something in our luggage and wanted it checked so they could sign off. He had opened it but there wasn't anything odd so it was a non-issue. At this point, we were happy our upgrade was successful as the flight was packed. We settled in, ordered our food and drink and enjoyed the flight. When we reached Taipei we headed to the nearest lounge… thinking we had loads of time and finding Haagen Dazs ice cream I decided another treat was in order. Bad idea because our delayed start had shortened our time and we had to head out to the next gate quickly… brain freeze occurred. Our flight to YVR was quickly boarded, received our jammies and amenities kits, ordered food and beverages and settled in. The flight was also busy and some people sounded like they had the lurgy but we were fine. Paul slept a bit, I managed about an hour but we made it YVR. 

Our original flight, YVR-YYC, was supposed to depart at 8pm… arrive at 10pm. That got changed and we were moved to departure at 10 pm with arrival at 12:05 am. Needless to say that kind of sucked. We had known this in advance so booked the Delta at the Calgary airport. By the time we arrived, picked up the duffel of van stuff and got to the hotel it was 1 am. We were both fairly shattered but were able to make it up in time to grab a quick breakfast before heading to meet our landlord and see our apartment. Uber was an experience but in the end we made it. 

When we contacted the landlord, we weren’t able to arrange for anyone to go and look at the apartment so it was all done without knowing it was real. The good news was Diana, our landlord, is not only real but super nice. The apartment is great, we have everything we need including all sorts of kitchenware, bedding, towels and the furniture is comfortable. We meet Nadir, the building concierge, who calls me Halen but is really friendly. Our apartment is right off 17th Ave, so we are in the thick of things. On the weekends it becomes a bit of a drag strip with people showing off cars and bikes, so it is definitely noisy.

The next day was a visit to Helen’s Mom and unpacking. It took us a few days to get sorted and settled, but we did it. We arranged a rental car and made a quick visit to Creston to see Paul’s parents and our friends Pati and John. We made arrangements to start seeing local friends, which was great… dinner with Roberta and Sherry, dinner and beverages was a late night with John and Mark. An evening out catching up with Brendon and Kristen before camping season was a bonus. Curtis and Tina arranged a group get together at their place with Dave and Brenda, Kirby and Jody which was awesome. It ended in a massive thunderstorm which was spectacular. We met with Pat and Liz, for beverage’s and a couple of dinners. A night in Kensington with Slavin and Alex, Larissa and Valens. A visit with one of our Thai friends, Tik when she came to visit her boyfriend Jesse, was a very pleasant surprise. Also had Dave and Brenda over for some balcony bevvies. 

We made appointments for meetings and the serious stuff that we needed to deal with. We managed to get new passports and updated our drivers licenses, meet with who we needed to and get things sorted. May and June had pretty nice temperatures, nice and cool with lots of rain with the bonus sunny day. Our balcony is great to sit out on and watch storms, see rainbows and stay cooler in the evenings. We also got a great view of the fireworks for Canada Day and Stampede. We’ve figured out the grocery ordering so we don’t have to walk with heavy loads which is nice. We have been using Lyft, which seems to be working out a bit better than Uber. It’s a good reminder how good Grab is in Thailand. 
 
We started walking pretty much every day. Two or three times a week I’d walk down to my Mom’s and visit a couple of hours. Paul would walk down to meet me and say hi, then we’d walk back together. We helped sort out new computers for Paul’s folks and a walker for my Mom. We did another quick Creston visit in June, stopping at Sushi Ginza on the way home… of course! It’s still really good. We have mostly been cooking at home but have had a few Sushi Ginzas and other meals out. I think the favorite, aside from the homemade stuff at friends, was a new gluten free Vietnamese. 

Calgary is busier than we remember and there is a serious homelessness problem. The drug issues are very obvious and we see people bent over and passed out in some unexpected places. A walk to the big new downtown library had us seeing a security guard resuscitate an overdose, he continued treatment till the ambulance arrived. It is very strange because there is also a huge increase in super expensive and fancy cars. It seems off but it is hard to put your finger on it. Still, love it here and we are using our remaining time to get ready for our return to Thailand, yes… again!  

In June we booked our tickets back to Chiang Mai. It meant we’d have to apply for new visas, we were out of Thailand when they expired. Paul’s has already been approved, just waiting on mine. He said he won’t go without me though… but we will see. We spent time looking for apartments in Chiang Mai. We were looking for a larger balcony so I could garden a bit, something out of the airport pathway and a better fridge would have been nice. With upcoming changes making it easier for people to stay in Thailand, apartments were at a premium so we decided back to our usual at The Siri condo was the way to go. We contacted Jen and have a place on the 7th floor this time… moving on up! I can probably put some pots on the balcony, maybe I can grow some tomatoes or lettuce. 

Our lease in Calgary ends July 31 and the best flights back were August 7, so we are headed to Creston for a week before Thailand. We couldn’t get a one way rental, apparently not available during the high season. We arranged to pick up a car, get our final items to Creston, return to Calgary for a night and fly back to Cranbrook the following morning. We have an earlier flight to YVR on the 7th, will spend some time with Jayne, who we haven’t seen for years. Our flight departs at 2 am, which isn’t great but we only have the layover in Taipei and skip Bangkok, so it was worth it. 

We have the apartment for 6 months and will decide what’s next while there. Spoilt for choice so who knows… maybe sometime in Lipe since we missed it last year… a trip to Playing the Field Music Festival in Tasmania… so many options. 

