---
title: "Canada 2025"
date: 2025-07-27T14:26:53-06:00
featured_image: "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczNIf0JT_uic0mk6G666byHaNu8LYkaWJldOH55M_pBIG7H6NBK_Cc-ZW_GCvjuCzgEaDAAp64EJvA-Y05s7tw0_SGOXs7zik-UJS6Xbdz41XIA7wVyDnybTF4VnXXWRCB-QDq9wIO7zTLFNPclIyKP4NQ=w1247-h935-s-no?authuser=0"
images:
  - "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczNIf0JT_uic0mk6G666byHaNu8LYkaWJldOH55M_pBIG7H6NBK_Cc-ZW_GCvjuCzgEaDAAp64EJvA-Y05s7tw0_SGOXs7zik-UJS6Xbdz41XIA7wVyDnybTF4VnXXWRCB-QDq9wIO7zTLFNPclIyKP4NQ=w1247-h935-s-no?authuser=0"
draft: false
author: "Helen"
album: https://photos.app.goo.gl/ZYM6BYUpgXSQF1ib7
omit_header_text: true
---

When we were in Chiang Mai deciding on our plans for 2025, a return to Canada came up. The opportunity to see our families and friends plus take care of whatever was required was appealing. We started looking at flights using Aeroplan miles, which has been much more challenging lately. I naively stated, it isn’t that hard to find something good with another airline and was advised it’s not so simple and much more difficult than I knew. Somewhat daunted,but being my stubborn self, I said no harm in looking!  Fate must have favoured me since about half an hour later I found a really good business class BKK-TPE-YVR flight with Thai and EVA Air. After we got over the surprise, we verified the flights actually existed and booked them. The flight from BKK was changed several times, so we had just under 2 hours to make our connection in TPE, but felt we could manage since our duffle would be checked to YVR. 

Our flight from BKK-TPE was delayed which wasn’t a great start but we were able to wait in the lounge which was comfortable. Boarding was a further delay when we had to get bussed out to the plane and spent another 15 minutes waiting on the bus before we could even board. Eventually, we departed but this narrowed our connection time to about 30 minutes. It was all booked on one ticket and Paul was confident they'd either have someone meet us, a perk of business class, or they’d have to rebook us. The flight itself was fine, it was a smaller plane with no pods, but the seats were comfortable and Thai Airways service is still great. When we landed, it was another wait for a bus and then the drive to the terminal. Paul was right, there were several people with signs to escort people to tight connections. Our host told us we had to walk quickly, which we did and luckily made it to the gate as they were finishing general boarding. 

We settled in our pods, meals selected and jammies handed out quickly. We had the single pods by the windows and Paul’s was just in front of me. Across the aisle, I had Desmond otherwise known as the “jack-in-the-box”. He kept standing up, then standing by his seat, going up the aisle, back down, hitting the call button. Turns out he is from England, is 92 and was traveling back to Canada with his wife and daughter. His wife was fast asleep behind him, but later told me they met in Vietnam back in the 70’s, immigrated to Canada in the 80’s and now that he had dementia they had made one last trip to see family in Vietnam. I think the attendants thought I was traveling with him so had me help with explaining things and getting him settled. I helped with his seatbelt, explained what was meant when they asked about his bed and helped him with his cane. To be honest, this meant it wasn’t the most restful fight, but that’s on me as I could have said we were not traveling together. I do think his family should have been more attentive and seated closer as he was obviously confused and struggling. Regardless, we made it back to YVR. 

We quickly got our luggage and headed off to the YVR Airport Fairmont for the night. We were heading to Creston for the first few weeks so had a flight to YXC early the next morning. For the past month we had been checking the prices of the hotel and managed to get a really good deal by booking about a week out. We managed to get some sleep, had a quick breakfast at the airport before catching our last flight. Paul’s parents met us in Cranbrook, we waited on the duffle and Paul drove us back to Creston. We had a tour of the garden, got pizza from Jimmy’s and a nice catch up on the front deck before having an early night. We had gotten in touch with Diana, our landlord from [last summer](https://carryonrtw.com/travels/calgary-summer-2024/). It worked out great as the guy who moved in when we left, was leaving so the apartment was available. We jumped on it and arranged to take possession for May 23.  

The next few weeks were filled with spending time with Paul’s parents and helping them with whatever they needed. Paul sorted out computers, the tv’s, helping with taking down larger branches, clearing out the garage and dump runs. I did cooking, cleaning, helped sort out some banking and paperwork and started weeding the garden plot. We also moved everything on the front deck and gave it a good clean on one of the non-rainy days. We fired up the BBQ for a few meals, played Domino’s and had some evenings on either porch watching the birds. We also managed to see Pati and John a few times which was great. We met at Bassack one night, walked over to theirs for dinner and boardgames and met for lunch. It was great to see them and hear that they were considering a trip to Thailand. 

We were able to borrow the car and take a trip to Calgary to take possession of the apartment and drop off some stuff that we’d need. Pati and John were in town so they came over and we went out for dinner. We made it a quick overnight and we were back in Creston so that Paul and John could watch the last game of the season together, see Liverpool be presented with the PL trophy! It was a nice way to wind up our stay. John came to see us off at the airport, Paul drove us there so that John only had to drive back. It’s a long way to go by himself.  

The apartment was the same, nicely furnished and had everything we needed. Nadir was still at the front desk, he even remembered us, so it was nice to see him. We did some grocery orders, got organized and unpacked. Our goal in Calgary was to get our gear sorted, traveling with the duffle had reminded us that carry on only was the way to go, so we were going to need to dial in some items. We were also able to make some appointments to connect with our financial people, accountants and get some of that sorted. We also wanted to get back to walking, get some overdue vaccines and get ourselves sorted. 

We had told my Mom that we were going to come visit her at the beginning of June, but hadn’t set a date. We surprised her one day by walking over, called her when we arrived and told her to look out the window. She was even more surprised to hear that we’d be staying for the summer. We settled into a routine, a couple of times a week, I’d walk over earlier in the morning, Paul would come a few hours later and we’d walk back together. We helped my Mom get sorted with a new Telus contract, internet and mobility for seniors which saved her a lot of money overall. We managed to get the facility manager to install the new stove she had been promised over 9 months prior and ordered her air fryer since that would make cooking even easier. I was able to be there to take my Mom to the hospital when she wasn’t feeling well. Not how I wanted to spend my birthday, but glad we were there when she needed us and could get her taken care of. 

We got in touch with friends and made numerous lunch and dinner dates. Tik came back to Canada, so we got to meet with her and Jesse when they were heading to BC. We saw Curtis, Tina, Dave, Brenda and Kirby at the Pig & Duke. I walked over to Kensington to have lunch with Roberta… thankfully she forgave me after I messed up and ended up messing up our first arranged day. We met Slavin, Alex and Valens for dinner and then John and Mark for another Pig & Duke evening. Hopefully we get to see everyone at least once more. 

Paul ordered one of the new mini computers. We ended up with 2 due to some issues with Amazon but were able to get everything resolved and returned. I got a Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 which tracks sleep, steps and all sorts of things. We’ve learned that letting the battery get too low will have you woken up at 4 am with it making a death knell when it drops to below 5%. 

It's rained a lot through June and July. There has been summer snow in the mountains and we've dropped down to 6 C a couple of nights. The average rain in July is 65ml, before the month is over we’ve already hit over 100ml which resulted in some flood warnings. The cooler days have made for some nice walks, less smoke and justifed a trip to the local Vietnamese for a bowl of tasty Pho. The city was crazy busy during Stampede, it wasn’t quite the record year but it was close. We didn’t attend the festivities but were able to see the fireworks every night which were good. 

Interlude: 2026
TL;DR after saying we weren’t going back to Australia for a few years, we are going back in 2026 for March, April and May 🤷. 

Back in 2023, I had started following Let’s Go Motorhome on the socials. We've rented 5 vans from them since 2017 and they post all sorts including photos that people submit. I thought this was cool to see, especially when it was places we’d been. Well, near the end of June, there was a deal that popped up showing a new van, a Jayco Tourer at $99/day. In comparison to what we had been paying, was a steal of a deal. Being curious I thought I’d take a look at the van to see how different it was from the Escape model we’d previously rented. Since we had no plans to return in 2026 it was no surprise when Paul saw this, he was suspicious and asked what I was up to. I mentioned the deal and that I was just curious to see how different the van was. This resulted in Paul standing at my desk to look, then us moving over to his computer so we could see everything better. His computer is hooked up to the large TV so has much better resolution. 

We liked the layout,it was very similar to what we had planned on building in 2020. The kitchen is right behind the driver's seat, and there's a fixed bed with a real mattress and a small two-seater dinette in the front. It's also got a bigger fridge, larger water tanks, a TV, a microwave, and an AC/heater unit. We started comparing it to the Escape model we previously rented. Both vans have the same chassis and exterior dimensions, but the new one has a smaller fuel tank with better fuel efficiency. It also has more storage, trading the indoor shower and toilet for a small cassette porta-potty. We relied on the showers at caravan parks in our last trips, so that is not a big deal. We both agreed it would be nice to have a bed we don't have to make every night and a real mattress might be more comfortable. We also checked, and emptying the small porta-potty is just as easy as emptying the larger one from the other model. 

That started a few days of should, shouldn’t we. Did Paul want to drive again? Did we need a separate toilet? We noticed our prior model was also on sale, about $50 cheaper/day. Do we want to take a chance with a different model? If we did go, when would we go? How long? Where would we go? How would we get there? Yadda Yadda… blah, blah, blah let’s see if we can make it work. Would we go to Tassie first, then the East Coast? Yep. Would going in March, April, May work weather wise? Yep, we knew March in Tassie was great and found out that April - June on the mainland is good. What about going in a different direction on the mainland, south to north? Yep, that worked for the time frame. Paul looked into flights and saw something that triggered him to question using Aeroplan reward points. He found great business class flights KUL-SIN-PER-HBA, low mileage and tax. Then he found some business class CNS-SIN-BKK, low mileage and tax. Do they have the new van? Yep. Can we drop off in Cairns? Yep. So there you have it, we booked it! 

Before we booked, the reservations team assured us that the Tourer model had a TV and microwave, but since it was a new model they didn't have photos. The website also showed them included. After we booked, we checked the website for updated photos every few days, trying to confirm the interior features. Three weeks later, we were surprised there were still no updated photos, so we reached out again. They confirmed the items were included and promised to send photos once they had some. We checked on the Tassie Motor Shacks site, their photos were different but also didn’t show the interior features. We sent a quick email to them asking if they had any updated photos. 

Newsflash: the Tourer model does NOT include a TV or microwave. This started a series of emails with Let's Go. The first response was, "whoops, my bad, it's not included," and offered us the option to book the Escape at full price or cancel. That didn’t work for us. They came back with a small discount on the Escape—the same early bird discount we would have gotten ourselves if we booked the van. We pointed this out and asked them to include the liability package instead, but they couldn’t. Their final offer was a slightly bigger discount on the Escape, which would have increased our trip cost by $6,000 or cancel the booking for a full refund. Since we'd already booked flights and arragned other reservations around this trip, we didn't want to cancel but we considered all options. We were already both excited to go and felt we could deal with heading to camp kitchens for a microwave or using the stove, like we did in New Zealand. Paul thought we could bring the small monitor we had in Chiang Mai for the computer. That meant we’d need to bring a duffle, but we could use our small one. After a lot of negotiation, Let's Go finally acknowledged their mistake and gave us a toll pass worth about $250 for the inconvenience. While they could have done more, all we really wanted was them to acknowledge they messed up which they did. We'll be hitting the road in a new van, at a different time of year, and traveling in the opposite direction, so it'll feel like a new adventure. Now, back to our regular programming.

We booked flights back to Thailand for September 22, we have to be in YVR on the 21st since it’s the usual 2:00 AM departure on EVA Air. We have the apartment until September 15 so arranged to go see Paul’s parents for the time in between. We’ll be renting a car to take the stuff back and then flying to Cranbrook, spend the week in Creston before heading back to YVR then Thailand. 

We got in touch with Jen at The Siri and she let us know that our old apartment #302 was available in September. Great, booked that until early February 2026 when we will head to Lipe. We’ve got a few more appointments to handle, friends to meet and I get to take my Mom shopping for some new clothes. Paul is taking a motorcycle course, something that he has always wanted to do. We are still dialing in our gear so that once we are done with the van, we can leave the duffle and continue future travels with carry on only. We are looking at what we want to do after June 2026, no real plans after arriving in BKK. Do we spend some more time in Thailand, come back to Canada or go to parts unknown? We really have no ideas at this point and are considering all options.












