---
title: "Chiang Mai 2024"
date: 2025-01-03T10:42:08+07:00
featured_image: "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczN86S6zgVxCTYZNLLl3cLXFmVMQmBF6Yr95UOUJGwgIYf6Dn9Resfk6CJb3hXrVuZ9VORUJ6q6todJ6incSRYF8R_SXLbhS7Rn5ENzPGhDx_33qwXmM47X5C02VtEHw7XTfJbCIuRKktMJb5ue2C-208Q=w1196-h897-s-no?authuser=0"
images:
  - "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczN86S6zgVxCTYZNLLl3cLXFmVMQmBF6Yr95UOUJGwgIYf6Dn9Resfk6CJb3hXrVuZ9VORUJ6q6todJ6incSRYF8R_SXLbhS7Rn5ENzPGhDx_33qwXmM47X5C02VtEHw7XTfJbCIuRKktMJb5ue2C-208Q=w1196-h897-s-no?authuser=0"
draft: true
author: "Helen"
album: https://photos.app.goo.gl/tV9Le43YCk84V63QA
omit_header_text: true
---
We departed on time from YVR and were quickly seated with jammies and food orders collected.  It was an easy flight to Taipei and we both got some sleep. We hung out in the lounge on our layover, luckily it wasn’t very long and there were no ice cream dramas. Then a last flight to Chiang Mai. We were able to fly CNX-TPE so wouldn’t have to deal with another layover in BKK. The plane was smaller and had old style seats so no pods but was still comfortable. Another great flying experience with EVA Air in the books.

Ian came and picked us up from the airport which was really nice.  He had also gotten us a bag of our favorite Akha Ama coffee as a “you are back” present. We headed over to The Siri Condominium and were warmly welcomed by Jen. Ian and our friendly security guard helped us load up all our stuff and we headed up to apartment 704. I guess we arrived sooner than expected since the cleaner wasn’t finished yet.  No biggie, being me, I’d clean again anyway.  The 3 of us decided to head over to Roastinyom for a coffee, us to keep going and Ian before he had to go to work. We had a nice catch up and then we got to work getting unpacked.

The apartment is… interesting. We are on the 7th floor, in one of the middle units facing Doi Suthep.  All the furniture is the same as our other stays but lots of throw pillows and colourful bits tossed in and wallpaper which is nice.  The kitchen is slightly different, the fridge is more in the living room area which is a bonus since it is easy to grab a bevvie without having to get off the couch!  We were a bit taken aback with the wall being covered in a mirror but have since gotten used to it.  We think the landlord is Russian, they left some items in drawers and the closet which is in Russian.  Even though the apartment definitely needs a refresher and some new couch cushions, it’s nice to be back. 

We quickly settled in and started to go around to visit our favourite restaurants. Rosemary Cafe, Khao Soi Mae Sai, University, Roast Chicken, Chai n Thai and Nong Bee’s are all still delicious and it was nice to be enjoying our favorite dishes. We headed out for a nice meal with Ness, Ian and Ness’s Aunt to Sri Nakornping on the river, which was delicious.  Have some bevvies and a wonderful meal at Sapians with Ness, Ian, Peter, Luigi and their friend Alex. Had a fancy sushi at Uchi Sushi with Ness and Ian. God came into town, Yves had gone back to Belgium to see his parents and wasn’t back yet. We went to the night bazaar and then God introduced us to a live music bar. Met Ness for drinks where he and Paul were splashed when water came off the awning before we headed to a movie.  We met with Matt at the new brewery just by our place and had a nice visit. All in all, we were enjoying being back. We both battled some colds and flu but recovered quickly enough.

The rainy season was off the charts. At first it didn’t seem too horrible and we had many sunnier days mixed in with a bit of rain. Then it rained a lot for several days. The Ping River overflowed and hit record highs. Elephants were killed when the camp area around Mae Taeng flooded. God and Yves had their second flood of the season, but luckily not too much was damaged. Peter and Luigi, Bo and Pack couldn’t leave their apartments for days. Bo ended up having to go stay in a hotel when the water got into the building electrical room. Eventually the rain stopped and places started drying out. Some areas, like Nimman where we are, were not affected. Chiang Mai organized a massive clean up and it was back to normal for most people in 10 days or so.  Some businesses along the river were very badly damaged and, sadly, Sri Nakornping has decided to shut its doors. We were so lucky that we were able to go before it closed and we will definitely miss it. 

Paul and I decided it was time to learn some Thai. It's embarrassing that we have been coming to Thailand for 20 years and can hardly speak any Thai. We signed up for lessons, twice a week for 6 weeks. Kru Palm is a great teacher and kept us learning while making it fun. We started with 7 in the class but eventually it was basically 3 or 4 of us that consistently showed up. Paul fell behind when he came down with a cold and missed 2 classes, plus he was frustrated with the homework so didn’t finish. We still have the book, videos and flashcards so we can continue to learn even though class is over. My pronunciation isn’t great, but I keep trying to say what I can and practice. To this day I still raise my shoulders when trying to hit the high tone for “baan” which is house in Thai. Don't even try to get me to say ‘and’, even the teacher just told me not to bother.

I decided to cut off my hair so headed to New York New York for a cut.  I went back and got it done shorter but since then I've decided to start growing it longer again. We’ve gotten to get some health items sorted and only have a few more to take care of.  We were able to get the dengue vaccine offered here and get our final dose in February.  With the cooler weather, and finding another short cut to make it easier, we have walked into old town a couple of times.  We haven’t been cooking as much and have been finding loads of new places to go. We found a little restaurant around the corner where the lady is really nice. We call it “fireworks” because one day the fan blew the breaker and started a fire in the electrics. Another place called Kwamsug does fancy Khao Soi. Lux to Eat is a nice, basic Thai food. 

With the new visas and entry changes, Thailand also updated their tax laws and it became a bit muddled. If you stay 180+ days you become a tax resident, that’s cut and dried. What isn’t clear is what will be taxed on, is it only income brought into Thailand, only if your country doesn't have a tax treaty or what rate do you pay if items aren’t taxed in your home country but are in Thailand. It’s mass confusion and there is a lot of misinformation out there.  We decided to stay under 180 days for this year so that we can see how it all works out. We had 12 days where we’d need to be outside the country to stay under the timeline so needed to make a trip. The easiest was either Laos or Malaysia. We decided to head to Malaysia, see the dentist and head to Penang where we have never been. 

Malaysia - Kuala Lumpur and Penang - October 12-21, 2024

We got easy flights to KUL from CNX with Malaysia Airlines. We had never flown with them before and they had the best timed flights so we decided to give them a go. Worked out great, smooth flight and good service.  We had booked an AirBnb in KL that was very close to KLCC and the dentist. Our first night we started with a meal from My Biryani house which is tradition.  Our apartment had a view of the [Menara Kuala Lumpur](https://kltower.com.my/) which was lit up every night.  We were on floor 13A, which is really the 15th floor when all other A floors were counted.  

We went out for a couple of breakfasts instead of getting groceries.  The first day included a long walk and great food but was a bit pricey. Our second morning we found a closer place and ordered eggs and mushroom for me and Paul bacon eggs benedict. I got my food in about 10 minutes but it took another 20 minutes for Paul’s to arrive even with 3 cooks.  Imagine our surprise when it had mushrooms and no bacon.  When we asked about it, it turns out we misread the menu and it wasn’t bacon, it was Becon a brand of mushrooms.  Lesson learned and we went and got our usual yogurt and fruit. 

Since we first arrived in the apartment building the elevators had issues, at least one was always out of service.  This came to head when we walked back from the dentist, stopped for a walk and lunch at KLCC before heading home. When we arrived all the elevators were out of service and no one had any idea how long it would take before they were back up. It was muggy and hot in the lobby and seating wasn’t really that comfortable.  Being brilliant, I said why don’t we try to walk up the stairs.  Note: at no point did I consider that the stairwells would also be hot and muggy.  Paul reminded me that there is no “try” in this scenario and we'd have to keep going. Undaunted, I said, we got this and let’s go.  In the end, I didn’t have it.. Paul did, went up the stairs in his usual energizer bunny style, barely broke a sweat.  I took a break at floors 5, 7, 9 and 11 before finally making it to our floor. Paul had gone ahead and was calling down encouragement… “boom”. I’m sure people who passed us on the way down thought I was going to collapse.  I did manage to get to the apartment and have a shower prior to said collapsing so yay me! 

Paul ended up having an issue with his sinuses, even his face was quite swollen, so we headed over to the nearest hospital to get him some relief.  The hospital was good and we only waited about an hour for Paul to be seen. The doctor was great, gave Paul some medication and told him to take it easy so we headed home.  A funny side note, while waiting for Paul to be seen I went to grab coffee, the nearest being a Starbucks. I gave my name and went to the waiting area.  I was the only person so it was quick and the staff just handed it to me. Turns out that was a good thing because I wouldn’t have responded when they called "Aglan" which was what Helen had been changed to.  We ordered Grab Food that day and when I went down to get it, the elevator I was in was acting up.  Still traumatized, at no point did I even consider taking the stairs.  Luckily the rest of our time was fairly uneventful.

We had decided to head to Penang for 3 nights. We had heard a lot of good things about it but had never been there before. We chose to stay in the Georgetown area as it’s a historic site and everyone recommended it.  Since we got an awesome deal on the KL AirBnb, we spoiled ourselves with quite a fancy place and stayed at Armenian 88. It’s a boutique hotel with about 8 rooms, a “bath butler” and a top rated restaurant on the main floor. It was awesome. They managed to get us an early reservation at Tong’s even though it was booked solid. We shared the 5 course meal, watermelon and anchovies starter, a shrimp appetizer, then a rack of lamb which was the standout. They even made a special gluten free dessert, we still have no idea what it was.  Our room was filled with snacks, gluten free and regular. We received a little note and a nightly treat for turn down service. We took advantage and ordered a bath butler having no idea what that would entail.  The butler showed up, ran the bath adding in homemade bath salts and bath bombs, then lit some scented candles.  He left for about 5 minutes, coming back with a jug of soothing iced tea. He made sure our robes and towels were properly arranged before leaving.

We wandered around Penang, saw the art works, ate delicious food and enjoyed relaxing in our room.  There were a few dance competitions in the mall when we walked over for some air con, so we stopped and watched for a bit.  One thing about Penang was that it was incredibly crowded, everywhere. It didn’t matter what street, what was around there were just so many people.  It seemed overwhelming at times, especially with the line ups to take photos at the artworks. We enjoyed our time, but would probably not go back. We did have a blip when leaving the hotel, everything was locked up and no one was around, but we figured out how to unlock it all, got our taxi and headed home. The flights were all good, a quick transit in BKK where we got sent to the wrong area but found where we needed to go, and we were back in Chiang Mai.

Peter and Luigi invited everyone over for Luigi’s birthday party which was nice. We got to meet Kareem, a friend of Ness and Ian, and see Alex again. We also met some more of Peter and Luigi’s friends and had a very enjoyable night out. Yves was back in Thailand, a month later than expected. He had fallen when in Belgium and needed surgery which was successful and was approved to fly again.  We hitched a ride out to Mae Taeng with Bo and Wit. God and Yves were recovered from the flood and it’s always a nice place for bevvies and a visit. We headed over to the Rice Field restaurant for a nice meal so no one had to cook. 

We’ve gotten to spend time with Bo, even met for a cheeky Indian meal. It was funny the next time we went into Chia n Thai they asked where he was.  We celebrated American Thanksgiving with Bo and his friends at an Italian Restaurant run by a Burmese Chef… the food was great! Another great night out at Mae Taeng, this time for Yves birthday. We drove out with Bo, got to see some of God’s family and got to meet their friends. We hit up a cabaret with Matt which was really fun. Incredible acts. Had a few meals with Ness and Ian, met with Matt or Bo for coffees in various places.  

Peter and Luigi’s had everyone over for Loy Krathong.  They are the best hosts and always put on a fantastic gathering. We got to meet Ian Ness’s UK friends who were in town, had a great time and enjoyed the evening watching the fireworks from the balcony.  Tomas and Romana decided to head up to Chiang Mai so we’ve been able to meet with them.  We see God and Yves when they come into town.  Bo and Wit took us out of town to a lovely coffee shop and gallery.  The owner is a retired associate professor who built a house from clay bricks on his own, so we got a tour of that, his art gallery and the gardens.  Then the 4 of us headed over to a local Thai place on a pond for a nice meal and some bevvies. Bo dropped us off and we met with Tomas and Romana, who happened to be with Robin, who we all know from Lipe.  It was a long day, but really nice.

We’ve met a Canadian couple in our building, Elaine and Dennis. They are from the Annapolis Valley area in Nova Scotia. He is here getting knee replacement surgery, which has gone well. He was a dentist in the Navy and she is very well traveled so they’ve shared some interesting stories. We’ve had some bevvie’s on the roof top and gone out for dinner a few nights. It’s been really enjoyable getting to know them. 

We had a quiet Christmas. We visited with Matt at Sax Bar on Christmas Eve, we decided to walk over and had a nice evening. Christmas day was quiet, we watched some movies and just stayed in. We met Dennis and Elaine for dinner on Boxing Day, had a nice meal. We made the mistake of walking over to the nearby mall afterwards which was packed. Apparently it doesn’t matter what country you are in, don’t go to the mall on Boxing Day! We did manage to get Paul some of his favorite IPA from Deschuttes and a bottle of Shiraz so we said it was worth it. In general Chiang Mai is much busier than it’s been in years, even more so than precovid. The new flexible visa options mean more people are arriving so it’s much busier than we’ve experienced.  

Our lease ends on February 8, 25 so we are going to head to Lipe… can’t miss it two years in a row!  We’ve found out a lot of our friends will be there so we are looking forward to seeing everyone again.  We got in touch with Mikkel and have a room at The Reef until March 2.    
