---
title: "Decision 2026"
date: 2025-09-04T15:59:49+07:00
draft: false
---
Yeah I know, Lipe and Australia again… how blasé 🙄. Hear us out on this one, please and thank you! It’s a long read but we wanted to get this in prior to the actual trip as it deserves some explanation. After summer in Canada, we had always planned to head back to Chiang Mai, go to Lipe for February and head somewhere else for March and part of April before going back to Chiang Mai. Easy right? Well Lipe was easy. We spoke to Nok and Mikkel, booked in at The Reef and booked our flight from CNX. We’ll do a usual overnight in Pak Bara and be on Lipe, February 5. Then what? We were debating Japan, Cambodia… even a trek in Nepal came up. We had no intention of heading back to Australia so quickly, it's expensive and we figured we'd wait awhile before doing another trip. Then the fates spoke and this is another one of those moments that sometimes just happens. 

Back in 2023, before our last [big trip](https://carryonrtw.com/travels/darwin-to-melbourne-2023/), I started following Let’s Go Motorhomes on “the socials”. I’d see posts with the rentals in all sorts of places and was always interested to see if it was somewhere we had been. “We’ve been there" is a favorite saying when we see a photo or video of a place we’ve been to. Probably weird, but that’s us. Sitting in Calgary closer to the end of June, I saw a “big sale” on one of their posts with a new van. Being my snoopy self, I decided to check it out. Paul happened to be walking behind my desk and saw it on the monitor. He knew immediately I was up to something; one suspicious 'What’s going on?' later, we were both huddled around the screen to check it out. It was intriguing enough that we moved over to his computer since it was connected to the TV with a much bigger screen for a better look.

The van in question is [The Tourer](https://www.letsgomotorhomes.com.au/vehicles/campervans/jayco-tourer-2-berth-campervan/). It is brand new and built on the same Renault base as the Escape model but has a different layout. It’s a walk through with a permanent bed set up at the back, a little two person sitting area by the bed, the cooking area, AC/Heater, a bigger fridge and water tanks with lots of storage. There was no wet bath but it had a porta potty. It was also showing it had a TV and microwave. It was a nice looking set up and was cheaper to rent than the Escape. We both took a look and decided it was like a combo of the original HiAce we rented in [2017](https://carryonrtw.com/travels/australia-brisbane-to-daintree/) and the Escape model we’d had recently rented. It was nice and we probably would have been left as an option to consider another time if it wasn’t for the “big sale”.  

What was the sale? Yes, I’m pretending you asked. $99 AUD/day if you booked it before June 30. That was half the price of the Escape and was 40% off the usual price on the Tourer. The opportunity to save thousands doing something we enjoy got us thinking 🤔. Do we want to do this so soon? Was another Tasmania trip doable? We love it there! Would it make sense to go to mainland Australia again? That discount made it appealing and we'd never been during Autumn before. What’s the weather like? Would we bounce up the East Coast again or head over to Western Australia to finish [“the Big Lap”](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Highway_1_(Australia)) with a detour to [Uluru](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uluru)? Did we, being Paul, want another 3 months of driving and my poor navigating? What stops would we make? Do we want to take a chance with a different model? What about flights? We took a couple of days to discuss it and we both felt it was worth looking into further. 


A quick reddit post got us the information we needed about the weather. Darwin and the northern part of the Western Australia would be transitioning from wet to dry season so was still a bit risky for rain and road closures. It was also recommended to get a 4x4, a much more expensive rental, to be able to explore the area to its fullest. We tabled that for now and focused on the East Coast… we love our beachwalks! Heading from Melbourne up north would be best. Yes, the weather can always be crazy but historically, it’s not a bad time of year. We would need to factor in Easter and school holidays between MEL-SYD which are some of the more populated areas. We'd been in QLD during the spring break and we didn’t remember it being that bad but that crazy Labour Day long weekend spent at Cheynes Beach on our [MEL-PER](https://carryonrtw.com/travels/australia-melbourne-to-perth-2024/) trip was a good reminder of what it could be like. We took that under advisement and accepted some preplanning would be necessary.

We really enjoyed spending March 2025 in Tasmania, so starting there was an easy decision and we'd pick up and drop off in Hobart. If doing a reverse trip up the East Coast, picking up a van in MEL was a no-brainer. It’s a short flight from HBA and we could head out of the city the same day since there was no time change. But where to drop off? We didn’t want to spend the time heading all the way to Darwin or going north to the Daintree and taking the inland route south. What about Cairns? Okay, how long? We had taken 51 days to get south last time and decided 60 would be perfect. It would give us more time to explore along the coast and we’d said it would be nice to spend longer at the places we really enjoyed. It also gave us extra days in case of weather unknowns. 

Well what about the van? Considering this is what really started the whole thing it was a major factor to be considered. The Escape model also had a discounted rate about 30% savings. Not as good of a deal, but still appealing. Let’s Go confirmed the new model would have a microwave and TV so really the big differences were no separate bathroom and a fixed bed. We discussed if we, being me since I was the one responsible to dump it, could deal with having a porta potty. It was still a cassette style, and we’d only use it for emergency #1’s, so it could work. The bed in the back was an actual double mattress which meant we wouldn’t need to make the bed daily and hopefully it will be more comfortable. Add in the big sale price and it was a pretty easy decision to choose the newer Tourer model.  A quick check confirmed the new van was available for the dates we were considering. 

Paul got started on flights next. We knew we’d be heading from Lipe so KUL made the most sense for a departure point. After our [last experience](https://carryonrtw.com/travels/tasmania-2025/) we were hesitant to book another long flight on a budget airline. Paul had the brilliant idea to check what flights would be available between KUL and HBA using rewards. We still have mileage points but they were getting harder to use for the flights between Canada and Thailand. He quickly found one that went KUL-SIN-PER-HBA, a lot of stops and a bit longer but flight times were shorter with reasonable mileage and tax costs. It was in business class which made the stops seem more manageable. What about departing flights? Paul found a great flight, again in business class, that went CRN-SIN-BKK with reasonable use of mileage and taxes. It meant an overnight stay in SIN but we knew the airport hotel would be fine. The way the flights worked out, our stay would be a bit longer than we originally considered but that’s okay! We’d be arriving March 6 and departing June 3, so we’d be exactly 90 days which met the visa requirements.  

We ran into a slight hitch when our flight to HBA didn’t arrive until after 5 pm on a Friday, so the van pick up was closed. We were able to get in touch with Jo from [Tassie Motor Shacks](https://maps.app.goo.gl/zcXNGVXq87nww6jbA) and they were happy to meet us on the Saturday morning, would even pick us up from our hotel. So great, we arrive March 6 and get the van March 7. We drop off in Hobart March 30 and catch a quick flight to Melbourne that has us arriving around lunchtime. We will pick up the van and head out of the city to start the journey to Cairns. So 24 days in Tasmania and 66 on the mainland. We talked about it for another day or two repeating questions and coming up with new ones but we both kept coming back to, yeah we should do it. YOLO and all that! We’d be saving on flights, have massive savings on the van itself and we love our time in Australia. We committed and had a flurry of booking flights, getting official van quotes and paying deposits. 

As mentioned, the reservations team assured us that the Tourer model had a TV and microwave, but they didn't have photos since it was such a new model. After booking, we were so excited that we kept checking the website every few days for new photos to confirm the interior features. Three weeks later, we were surprised there were still no new photos, so we reached out again asking if they could give us an idea where in the van the items would be located. Received confirmation the items were included and a promise to send photos shortly. We took a look at Tassie Motor Shacks as well. Their photos didn't show the inside of the vans either, so we sent them a quick email to see if they had any updated ones.

Newsflash: the Tourer model does not include a TV or microwave 🤬. This started a series of emails with Let's Go. The first response was, "whoops, my bad, it's not included". They offered the option to book the Escape at full price or cancel. That didn’t work for us. They came back with a small discount on the Escape — the same early bird discount we would have gotten if we had done the regular booking ourselves. We pointed this out and asked them to give us the previous sale price for the Escape model. It would be more expensive but still reasonable. No. We asked if they could include the liability package instead which was another no. Their final offer was a slightly bigger discount on the Escape, which would have increased our trip cost by $6,000 or cancel the booking for a full refund. At this point we were frustrated, we’ve been solid customers since 2017 and they really didn’t seem to be owning their mistake. We started looking at all options. Australia has some pretty strong false/misleading advertising laws but we’d need time to figure that out and wouldn’t actually be there until March. Since we'd already booked flights and made other reservations, cancelling wasn't ideal. 

We discussed if this was a deal breaker for us. We were already both excited to go and in the scheme of things how bad is it really? How could we make this work? We always stay in caravan parks so would have access to camp kitchens which all have microwaves. While not my favorite thing to do, we could walk over in the mornings to use the microwave and we managed without one during our 2 months in New Zealand. Plus we could use the stove when needed. Paul thought we could bring the small monitor we had in Chiang Mai for the computer and use it as a screen for the late night footie games or rainy TV nights. That meant we’d need to bring a duffle, which we were trying to avoid, but not the end of the world. It meant we could bring some other items that made van life easier. After a lot of negotiation, Let's Go finally acknowledged their mistake and gave us a couple of add-ins for the inconvenience. While they could have done more, all we really wanted was them to acknowledge they messed up which they did. 

Now that we had that handled, we focused on our time in Canada. Once we got to Chiang Mai, we asked on a few Australian travel groups and were warned several times to book our sites around Easter, that many places were already booked out. We were skeptical but a quick search proved we were wrong and several parks we had considered were all booked up... oops 😳! Tasmania should be fine, for the most part, we didn’t notice it being crazy busy last time. We spent a week coming up with a general plan, contacted sites and have booked ourselves until April 20. We’ve joined a few road trip and caravaning Australia groups on various social media platforms to get additional information. So barring any further “hitches” we'll be hitting the road in a new van, at a different time of year, and traveling in different directions, so it'll feel like a new adventure.

 



