---
title: "Tasmania 2025"
date: 2025-07-15T14:26:36-06:00
featured_image: "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczNIf0JT_uic0mk6G666byHaNu8LYkaWJldOH55M_pBIG7H6NBK_Cc-ZW_GCvjuCzgEaDAAp64EJvA-Y05s7tw0_SGOXs7zik-UJS6Xbdz41XIA7wVyDnybTF4VnXXWRCB-QDq9wIO7zTLFNPclIyKP4NQ=w1247-h935-s-no?authuser=0"
images:
  - "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/pw/AP1GczNIf0JT_uic0mk6G666byHaNu8LYkaWJldOH55M_pBIG7H6NBK_Cc-ZW_GCvjuCzgEaDAAp64EJvA-Y05s7tw0_SGOXs7zik-UJS6Xbdz41XIA7wVyDnybTF4VnXXWRCB-QDq9wIO7zTLFNPclIyKP4NQ=w1247-h935-s-no?authuser=0"
draft: false
author: "Helen"
album: https://photos.app.goo.gl/ZYM6BYUpgXSQF1ib7
omit_header_text: true
---

Yes, we are heading back to Australia… again 🤷. Tasmania specifically which shouldn’t be surprising since we’ve both felt we could live here. While in Chiang Mai, we had seen a series from a fairly popular [youtube channel](https://youtu.be/PiQDul738LA?si=LMt72u3arr61Zvsr) that we follow who had spent some time in Tasmania. As we were watching it, we realized two things: 1) we wanted to go back 2) it was becoming more and more popular. So knowing what happens when youtube discovers a place, looking at you Kao Soi Mae Sai, it didn’t take us long to make a return to Tasmania a priority. We’d also be going at a different time of year which would be a new adventure. 

The planning phase: To make this work, we had to do some advanced planning, not something that we normally do. We already knew we were heading to Lipe in February but hadn’t made any decisions past that. We started searching for flights from KUL since it’s the closest hub and  we found a good flight from HDY-KUL. Paul, being the search wizard he is, ended up finding a flight from KUL to MEL on AirAsia. It got into MEL early in the morning and there was an MEL-HBA flight about 3 hours later with Virgin Airlines, great. Next up was the van. We decided to stick with a campervan and Let’s Go Motorhomes was our first choice. Other than the Darwin fiasco, they’d been great. [2 Berth Escapes](https://www.letsgomotorhomes.com.au/vehicles/campervans/jayco-2-escape/) were still available, but unfortunately the prices had increased. That had us looking into other options but they were either much more expensive and/or larger units or much cheaper and smaller. Decision time… stay longer with a cheaper model or shorter with the same van?  We knew the van was perfect for us and a month seemed to be the sweet spot for a rental to justify the trip and keep expenses in check so we pulled the trigger. We booked flights and the van, then came up with a general plan of what we want to see this time. 

We headed off to KUL to catch our overnight flight to MEL and the connection to HBA. Checked in with time to spare, got some snacks and water and headed to wait by the gate. We were flying AirAsia which as a budget airline was always interesting. The gate was packed, a mass rush of people to get onboard but we ended up having a row of 3 to ourselves which was an unexpected bonus. While the flight itself was smooth it was also rough when the people in front of us did not stop talking for 8 hours and the people behind us were constantly bumping our seats, inevitable since they are so close together. Needless to say, we were pretty shattered when we landed in Melbourne. At this point, Paul said his neck and ear were sore and he wasn’t feeling great. We had some time, so decided to get something to eat before finding somewhere quiet to rest near the gate. As soon as he took his first bite, he said he felt something pop, we thought maybe just his ears adjusting and being exhausted. We got some lozenges and went over to our gate. 

The flight to HBA was smooth and short. We headed over to pick up the van and were pleasantly surprised to see the original owners of Tassie Motor Shacks, Rob and Jo were back. We originally rented from them in 2017 and they are the dealers for Let’s Go. We had a nice chat and picked up the van which we called Skippy Part Five. We are still listening to the books, there are 17 in the series! In hindsight we should have called it Skippy Ha as a homage to Thailand. Five is pronounced “ha” in Thai. This was another newer vehicle with only about 10,000 KMs on it. We decided to spend our first night at the Big 4 in Hobart, which turned out to be the smart choice. We stopped for some lunch and water before heading over to check in. Paul started feeling rougher and managed to get some sleep while I unpacked. A quick walk over to Subway for dinner meant we could get an early night. We made the decision that, when possible, future flights will be based on comfort not necessarily price dependent. 

With Paul not feeling great, we didn’t want to be doing a lot of driving and were also concerned about passing it on to anyone else. We made the decision to head to Huonville, which was only a 40 minute drive and not as social as some sites we have stayed at. We stopped for breakfast and groceries at a mall along the way before heading to a Dan Murphy’s to stock up on tasty beverages. We got a nice spot at our usual Huon Valley Caravan park. Paul was able to sit outside and rest, while I finished unpacking and organizing Skippy. After dinner, we did the short walk down to the river and had an early night. The next day Paul wasn’t feeling any better so we decided to take it easy, thinking a day of rest would help. The following day, he was worse so we extended our stay. We wanted Paul to rest, so I walked into town to get a few things until he felt up to driving. Unfortunately, my morning trip to the office to get another 2 day extension became a routine. On day 4 with no improvement,  it was time for Paul to see the local doctor. He managed to get an appointment the next day and was given another round of medication. I did a grocery run while Paul rested in the van, we needed water and heavier items that I couldn’t bring back. Our favorite Italian restaurant in Franklin had closed and moved to a small storefront in Huonville instead, so I walked over and got Paul some lamb lasagna to make up for his not feeling well. 

We were close enough to the kitchen that I could head over, cook and bring it back to the van without it getting cold. I met a really nice couple, Karen and Dave. She was originally from Saskatoon and they had both lived in Calgary so we had some nice chats. On the days Paul felt up to it, he’d walk over to the camp kitchen for dinner and we’d both walk down to the river. We had some sunny days, so we were able to sit out by the van. There was a major treaty violation by a Huntsman Spider we found in our toilet one night. It resulted in me hiding on the bed while Paul, even though not feeling well, tried to corral it and put it outside. In the end, a spatula and spoon were used which resulted in said invader’s demise and he was tossed out the window. 

Paul went back to the clinic as he wasn’t really better but luckily not worse either, he still had quite a bit of pain in his neck… no, it wasn’t me! He saw a younger doctor who sent him for an ultrasound in Hobart. We made the appointment and drove up for the afternoon. There was a free museum by where we parked so we spent about 20 minutes reading up on some history. Paul had the ultrasound, they said there was nothing showing which was good news and we headed back. He was pretty tired so we extended for another couple of nights. The doctor had Paul come in to review the results but even she was stymied and said if the pain didn’t go away after another week to come back and she’d get more tests. Whatever he had, it didn’t seem contagious so after 12 nights in Huonville, we decided to head over to Left of Field. Paul felt he was up for the drive so we got in touch with Adrien and Mel then headed off. 

We remembered Google taking us up some crazy hills when we stopped in Hobart previously and managed to avoid them this time by planning a stop in New Norfolk instead. It’s a nice drive and we made it to Left of Field with no issues. Mel was away for the night so we tracked down Adrien, he was playing golf on their new course but took a quick break to get us set up in a site. We settled in and headed over to the firepit. We saw Paul, the singer, and were able to say hello. At the firepit we met Craig from Perth who has a long stay trailer on the property and helps with some maintenance. Later we met Anthony from Queensland who also has a trailer on the property with his partner Karen. She is a travel nurse but was on the mainland. Mark was there and we found out his partner Robin sadly passed away the year before. We met Matt from Cairns who had been staying a couple of days with his dog Leo, who is lovely. We ended up having a great first night and stayed by the fire later than we probably should have but it was great to be back. 

The next night Mel was back with Quinn, Jensen, Archer and the newest addition Boots, the golden retriever. We had some lamb sausages and snacks with Adrien offering up some amazing pork belly. The next night Karen was back from the mainland and there were massive lamb or pork chops. Paul was finally starting to feel better so was able to enjoy himself. One night was a delicious pork roast shared out with mashed potatoes and veggies. We made a plan to make Thai Curry with crispy pork belly the following week. Tassie Paul put on a show one night with a bassist who was staying down the road with Barb, who we met last time. His daughter drove down from the mainland and we got to meet her. We also met Nev and Mel(?) who worked at the park. We met Cassie, who was crazy, but fun and called me her Canadian cousin. Adrien kept up with sneaking in servings of mezcal or scotch and free pouring wine. The Thai curry crispy pork belly night was a success and it ended up with 13 of us eating it. There is a challenge to make something with more spice next time though… accepted!

We walked over to the National Park every day and around the grounds. Did a drive down to Gordon and Serpatine Dams, stopping at Creepy Crawly trail. We had several breakfasts at Fika Time, which was just as good as before. With it being a little slower we were able to spend more time with Adrien and Mel along with getting to know Anthony, Karen and Craig. We had many conversations around the fire and spent a lot of time together. Matt kept extending his stay so we got to know him as well. Tassie Paul played a couple more nights and is still very good but didn’t spend too much time at the firepit. Paul and Adrien managed a game of golf while Mel and I headed to the Salmon Ponds for some salmon pate before she picked up Quinn. Karen, Mel and I hiked up Seagers Pass one morning which was awesome. We did a couple of grocery runs to New Norfolk, probably drank too much and just had a great time. 

Skippy was great, everything worked and we didn’t have any more spider incidents. We did get a broken pin on the awning which Paul “mcguyvered” with a twig so we could still put it out. We had some pretty chilly nights and rainy days. We ended up spending all our remaining time at LoF, it was just what we needed and it’s very hard to leave when you feel so at home. On our last  morning, we headed out to Fika Time for a goodbye breakfast with Adrien and Mel, Anthony and Karen, Craig and Mark… it was great to be able to say good bye to everyone without others around. 

Van drop off was great, no issues and we were whisked away to the airport. It wasn’t until we were waiting to check in that we realized Paul left his water bottle on their office desk. Our flight to Perth was fine, other than the person sitting in the aisle telling me to “keep my arm inside the armrest” without even a hello.  Because I am me, I spent the next few hours playing a game of arm rest dominance where I’d randomly move my elbow or arm… he seemed to get the hint. We had a quiet night in Perth, stayed at the Ingot again, which was good. Unfortunately the Indian place we had eaten at last time had closed and it was late, so we just ate at the hotel. We had a good sleep before our flight back to KUL. 


